Subject: Still Hacking Anyway
Author: Bjarni Rúnar
Date: August 13, 2017
Type: blog

Last weekend, I happily attended the Dutch SHA2017 Hacker Camp. I slept
in a tent, gave a talk about Mailpile and had too much beer and almost
enough interesting conversations.

The advertised title of my talk was "Four years later", because Mailpile
itself was launched at the last Dutch hacker camp: OHM in 2013. So I
talked about what Mailpile is, what has happened during the last four
years and finally I announced [our first 1.0 release candiate](/download/)!

However, I sneakily changed the title to **Still Hacking Anyway**, because
I just liked that better.

Thanks to [the Chaos Computer Club media
project](https://media.ccc.de/about.html), you can watch the talk here:

<div style="width: 670px; margin: 0 0 0 20px;">
<iframe width="660" height="378" style="margin: 0 0 0 10px;"
        src="https://media.ccc.de/v/SHA2017-101-mailpile/oembed"
        frameborder=0 allowfullscreen></iframe>
 <p style="text-align: right; margin: -10px 10px 20px 0;">
   <a href="https://media.ccc.de/v/SHA2017-101-mailpile"
      target=_blank>download the talk here</a></p>
</div>

After the talk I gave away a bunch of Mailpile t-shirts and stickers,
but mostly relaxed and enjoyed being surrounded by interesting
hacktivists at the camp. It was a wonderful event and the organizers
and volunteers all did a fantastic job.

The talk ended with a call for help; funnily enough, I'm roughly on
schedule and would like to hire a couple of developers to help me
complete the [Plan for 2017](2017-01-30_A_Plan_for_2017.html). I will
post more details about the positions later this month: if you know
Windows or Mac desktop developers that are looking for 3-4 months of
contract work, watch this space - or just get in touch!

**A correction:** I am aware of one factual error in my talk: I said
that GnuPG 2.1 was moving towards making TOFU the default trust model.
This is incorrect. My apologies!
