Subject: A Plan for 2017
Author: Bjarni Rúnar
Type: blog
Date: January 30, 2017

Happy Belated New Year!

Thank you for your ongoing support and encouragement in 2016. Although there
was no "big news" from Mailpile in 2016, development continued and I was happy
to see a whole bunch of new contributors submitting patches, reporting bugs
and chatting with us on IRC. It's wonderful to have a community.

As any reader of this blog knows, my track record when it comes to predictions
and planning, is absolutely abysmal. I'm sorry.

However, I still want 2017 to be the year Mailpile hits 1.0. The project will
be 4 years old this summer and we *need* to make a release. Here is how I hope
to accomplish that:

   1. Over the next few months, I will (with help from the community) chip
      away at [the list of 1.0-blocking
      issues](https://github.com/mailpile/Mailpile/milestone/4).

   2. Once (most of) the blocking issues are resolved, a *release candidate*
      will be tagged, packaged and made conveniently (apt-get install ...)
      available for Debian and Ubuntu Linux users.

   3. At this point, I will use some of the remaining Mailpile funds to
      hire specialized help to work on the Mac OS X and Windows integration
      and packaging efforts. With a couple of exceptions, I have been
      self-funding my Mailpile work since the beginning of 2015, so in spite
      of our failures to raise grant money, we do still have some cash in the
      bank (and our bitcoin wallets).

   4. Once a release candidate has been published, we will ask our community
      of international translators to finish their work and try and get some
      "QA" work done to ensure the translations are accurate.

   5. At this point, we will also encourage other Linux distributions to
      contribute build recipes so we can build packages for them as well.

   6. Feedback from early Linux adoptors will be used to squash bugs, polish
      the code and clean up the translations, eventually leading to a 1.0
      release. Whether the 1.0 release will be simultaneous for all three
      platforms is undecided.

I think all, or most, of these things can happen within the next 11 months.

Especially with your help...
