Subject: Burned Out and Happy?
Type: blog
Author: Bjarni Rúnar
Date: 6 April, 2019

Dear Mailpile Users and Backers,

I just wanted to post a short note, to explain why development has been
so slow for the last year - or longer. The long and the short of it is,
I'm burned out, and this has been the case for quite some time.

I care deeply about this project, but it really is too big for one
person and I haven't successfully built a team to support me. That's not
to discount the contributions and efforts of our community, but at the
end of the day I've been the one responsible for keeping the ball
rolling. I review the pull requests, I respond to issues, I file the tax
returns, I try to spend your donations wisely... and I write most of the
code. Doing this well is a lot of work!

This responsibility, combined with frustration over how slow progress
has been, has really worn me down. When I'm feeling down, I'm not very
productive, leading to a vicious cycle of feeling bad about a the lack
of progress and then becoming incapable of making progress as a result.

It's not good.

It took me a while to realize what was going on, to realize I was burned
out.

There is also a money dimension here; although I cannot say thank you
enough for all the donations and support from our community, the fact is
that Mailpile has not been able to pay me a decent wage for my work,
*ever*. I know my value on the job market, and I've been underpaid since
day one. That was my choice and I don't regret it; but it's still become
harder and harder for me to justify. I have a family now and I've
drained most of my savings trying to get 1.0 out the door.

So, I'm giving myself a break and focusing on other things for a while.

I've gotten a (part-time) job working with the fine folks at
[ISNIC](https://isnic.is/), I'm working out regularly at the pool and
I'm spending more time with friends and family. *Life is good!*

Now that I've accepted and embraced my burnout, I'm actually feeling
pretty happy.  Identifying a problem is the first step towards a
resolution, and I'm already well on my way with steps two and three.

So to be 100% clear: **Mailpile is not dead!**

Far from it, I'm way too proud of this app to just walk away and let it
die. But for now, Mailpile has been demoted to a part time job at most,
and a beloved hobby at worst. Considering how unproductive I had become,
you may not even notice any difference...

Finally, if reading this gives you the urge to help out, here are a few
things you can do for me and for Mailpile:

<ol>
<li><a href="/download/">Use Mailpile</a>! It's not perfect, but it's pretty great.
<li>Tweet or <a href="https://joinmastodon.org/">toot</a> what you like about it...
    I'm listening!
<li>Help make our <a href="https://community.mailpile.is/categories">Community Discourse</a>
    a useful, welcoming place.
<li><a href="/donate/">Donate</a>: As always, I'll do my best to spend it wisely.
</ol>

Thanks for reading!

 -- Bjarni
