Subject: Press release: Secure e-mail project raises $50,000 in one week
Author: Bjarni
Date: August 9, 2013
Type: blog

Mailpile, a secure e-mail software project, has raised over $50,000 USD
from 1200 individuals on the Indiegogo.com crowdfunding website, in just
under one week. The project's goal is to write software which will make
secure encryption of e-mail more user friendly and accessible to the
general public, in addition to providing a compelling open source
alternative to the centralized e-mail solutions offered by Google,
Microsoft and others.

The project's focus on privacy and giving end users more control over
their e-mail data appears to have touched a nerve with the technical
community, in part due to the revelations of Edward Snowden and the
recent shuttering of the privacy focused Lavabit e-mail service. When
the project was first announced at the OHM 2013 technical festival in the
Netherlands last weekend, it was met with rounds of applause and a flurry
of activity on the Twitter social website.

Mailpile is the work of a small team of software developers based in
Reykjavík, Iceland. They hope to raise enough money to spend at least
two man-years on the project. Fund-raising will continue until September
10th, 2013.

For further information, see <http://igg.me/at/mailpile> or contact
<team@mailpile.is>.


#### About the team

Bjarni Rúnar Einarsson is tech lead for the project. He has been been
working on various aspects of the Internet since the mid-90s, including 6 years
fighting spam and viruses and 3 years on Google's site reliability team (SRE).
Bjarni received the Nordic Free Software Award in 2010 for his contribution's
to Iceland's local tech community.

Brennan Novak is the team's user interface and user experience designer.
He has contracted for large companies like Nike and Intel as well as
smaller startups and open source projects.

Smári McCarthy is the team's privacy and security expert. He has spent
the last few years working as the director of the International Modern
Media Institute, working with activists, NGOs and governments on
information security and network policy issues.

